This isn't supposed to be easy.
Nothing worthwhile ever is.
This experience that everyone has told you will be the time of your life can be pretty uncomfortable at
times.
You are joining a new community, living with strangers and wrestling with high-level academics.
The highs and lows of college are real, and opportunity awaits in how you choose to handle both.
Use the resources on campus (we will talk about those throughout this book!), seek help when you need it
and push yourself past the limits of your comfort zone.
No one succeeds on their own.
Regardless of how it may look or feel, you are not alone - in your struggles or achievements.
Be relentless, genuine and unapologetic in pursuit of your growth.
It's why you're here.
For maybe the first time ever, you are in charge.
You can choose to hit the books, sleep till noon, eat whenever and whatever, head downtown, drive to the
mountains, hang out alone in your room or party all night with friends.
Increased personal freedom and responsibility are a big part of college.
And a lot of what you learn will come from experiences outside the classroom.
Embrace it.
But choose what you do wisely.
Rules can be a good thing when you come up with them yourself.
And remember - you're on your own, but you're not alone.
We are here to help, but it's on you to make it happen!
Managing your time can be a challenge.
College won't be as structured as high school, and freedom overload can get the best of even the most
organized student.
You'll be juggling tough class assignments and countless opportunities to avoid them.
Plus, there's laundry.
It's a balancing act, and all the new responsibilities can be overwhelming.
So take a deep breath, and ask for help when you need it.
With a little trial and error, you'll find a formula that works for you.
Convenience is a click away
Complementing this book is newstudents.wfu.edu, where you'll find this information as well as relevant
forms and documents.of
Your WFU Account
After submitting your initial deposit, you should have received an email from the Information Systems
Service Desk (help@ wfu.edu).
The email was sent to the email address provided on your admissions application and contains
instructions for activating your WFU account.
Your username and password will enable you to access
your WFU Google Mail as well as the Wake Information Network (WIN) and other online services.
Activating your WFU account allows you to manage your account from any device with internet access.
Your WFU Google Mail
to enable Google 2-Step Verification within 90 days of claiming their WFU Google Mail account.
Learn more at is.wfu.edu/ services/2-step-verification.
The Policy on Responsible and Ethical Use of Computing Resources
Use of all Wake Forest technology resources is governed by the Policy on Responsible and Ethical Use of
Computing Resources.
This policy is presented to you when you claim your account.
Please take time to read this policy as you are accountable for adhering to it.
Annually, there is a copyright infringement notice that is sent out reminding you of your responsibilities
regarding the use of copyrighted materials.
This notice is found at is.wfu.edu/services/copyright.
For more information about all things computing at Wake Forest, see p. 173.
If you have questions or concerns, please contact the Information Systems Service Desk at help@
wfu.edu or 336.758.4357.
You can also visit the online help portal, AskDeac, at help.wfu.edu.
An Exciting Beginning Awaits 1
PROJECT WAKE
Identity and Community
Wake Forest has a long tradition of engaging in a summer academic project on an issue of intellectual and
social importance.
The tradition includes setting aside time during New Deac Week for students to engage with a faculty or
staff member on this issue.
It is a favorite New Deac Week activity.
For 2020, the Project Wake theme is "Identity and Community."
College is a time where you will experience significant individual growth, all the while figuring out how
to be a member of your home community and your new Wake Forest community.
This experience may not always be harmonious or intuitive, and it often requires vulnerability, resilience,
and empathy.
Join your fellow classmates in Project Wake 2020 to examine what identity and belonging to a
community means by engaging with literature.
As a participant in Project Wake, you will be asked to consider ways that you bring a unique perspective
in developing a broader community.
You will be asked to consider how your own identity development and values may shape how you interact
with others and build community.
What unique attributes do you bring to broader experiences that we share at many different levels?
For example, you are one of many students with the shared experience of beginning your studies at Wake
Forest this fall; what related challenges, excitement concerns do you bring with you?
At a much broader level, as a worldwide community we have experienced challenges of pandemic
response with shared individual perspectives within our communities.
What ways did community provide support to  during that experience and in what ways did you find
challenges related to community?
Project Wake will give the opportunity to explore these and other questions about maintaining your
individuality while being a member of a variety of communities.
A work of literature that interests you will serve as the launch point for these conversations.
The questions of what community is, the benefits and responsibilities associated with being a member of
various communities, and how to ensure that we thrive as individuals AND
community members are relevant to the decisions you will make daily as you embark on this college
journey.
In June, you will find a list of the 2020 Project Wake summer reading options at go.wfu.edu/ projectwake.
Books are available from many different genres and disciplines so that you can select a group that is most
interesting to you.
These conversations have proven to be an exciting and meaningful way to make new friends and discuss
issues that matter.
Who's Who?
Resident Advisers (RAs)
Undergraduate student leaders responsible for building community and connecting students, RAs plan
initiatives for not only their smaller communities but also for the overall residential community they
serve.
Our South Campus communities have between seven and 11 RAs, based on the community.
Look for a welcome email from your RA in August!
Graduate Hall Director (GHD)
A live-in graduate student who assists professional and student staff in the general management of a
residential community, which houses 200-300 undergraduate students.
Graduate Hall Directors focus on the staff and student development needs of the community they are
assigned to.
Community Director (CD)
A full-time master's-level, live-in professional who manages a residential community and supervises RAs
and GHDs.
CDs work with their staff to foster inclusive community through co-curricular initiatives, mentorship and
faculty engagement.
Additionally, CDs work to ensure that students understand and abide by University policy and provide
general assistance to students with residential concerns.
Area Council
The South Forest Area Council offers leadership experience for first-year students.
Through advocacy, programming and strategic initiatives, the council works to improve the residential
experience.
The executive board members act as liaisons between students living on South Campus and the Office of
Residence Life and Housing.
For more information or to get involved with Area Council, contact your Community Director or
Graduate Hall Director.
Disability-Related Housing or Dining Accommodations
Wake Forest University views living on campus as integral to a liberal arts education and the Wake Forest
experience.
As such, the University has a six-semester (three-year) residency requirement.
In support of students with disabilities, the Office of Residence Life and Housing has a wide variety of
housing and dining options on campus that can accommodate the vast majority of disability needs.
Students who would like to request a disability-related accommodation should visit
go.wfu.edu/f101accommodations.
Substance-Free Living
Substance -Free Living is for residents who desire and agree to maintain a substance-free environment.
This community will be on hallways, sections or floors of various communities as demand warrants.
In addition the Housing Agreement, residents and their guests must abide by a Substance-Free Housing
Agreement, whereby they agree to not partake in or enter the residential environment under the influence
of tobacco, alcohol or drugs.
Gender-Neutral Housing
We are excited to offer gender-neutral housing options for any interested students.
Students who select gender-neutral housing will live in mixed- gender rooms/suites.
For incoming students, these rooms/suites will be clustered together in an area of a residence hall.
Rooms may share private and/or semiprivate bathrooms.
As a part of this process, students are asked to complete an interest section on the Housing Application.
Students who request gender-neutral housing will then be contacted by staff from the Office of Residence
Life and Housing to discuss the best way to accommodate their housing needs.
During the process, no student will be asked to disclose their sexual orientation, gender identity or gender
expression.
Quiet Living
Quiet Living is for residents who desire and agree to maintain a quiet living environment.
This is an option for students who need to get up early or just want a quiet place to live.
As demand warrants, this community will be on hallways, sections or floors of various communities.
In addition to the Housing Agreement, residents and their guests must abide by a Quiet Living
Agreement.
Living Learning Communities (LLCs)
Residents in LLCs will live in the same residence hall or on the same floor while taking a course together.
Examples of previous LLCs include FYS 100, WRI 111 and ENT 302.
LLCs are designed to deepen student learning and foster community among faculty, staff and students
who share co-curricular experiences related to coursework.
Residency Requirement and Guarantee
Wake Forest has a six-semester (three-year) residency requirement and is one of the few universities in
the country that guarantees housing  students in good standing for eight semesters.
Students are required to live in campus housing their first three years unless they live with a parent or
guardian in the Winston-Salem area.
Insurance
Wake Forest University (which includes the Office of Residence Life and Housing) does not assume
responsibility for theft, loss or damage to your personal property.
Most thefts occur when residents leave their room doors unlocked and/or their property unattended.
Keeping your room locked at all times is your best defense against theft.
Additionally, the University does not cover property loss for damage due to facility incidents that may
occur.
Before coming to campus, you should determine what it would cost to replace belongings such as
clothing, electronics - including cell phone, television, laptop - linens, etc.
As part of the housing application process, you will have the opportunity to purchase renter's insurance
from a partner vendor, GradGuard.
Additionally,  may wish to check your family's homeowners insurance policies.
Many policies will cover loss or theft even if the policy is in your parents' names and you are living on
campus.
Do you have more questions?
Visit our incoming students page at go.wfu.edu/f101housing.
If you have additional questions or your question is not answered, please contact us at housing@wfu.edu
or 336.758.5185.
Forest 43
How do I apply for housing/dining?
All first-year students will complete a Housing and Dining Application online by logging into our
Housing Portal at go.wfu. edu/housingportal.
The application will be available May 18 and is due by June 28.
How can I view the type of room I will be living in?
You may learn about our residence halls, review floor plans and more by visiting
go.wfu.edu/f101housing.
What can and can't I bring to campus?
More info about what you can and cannot have in your room can be found online at
go.wfu.edu/f101housing.
When can I move in?
Residence halls open on August 19.
Students participating in Pre-orientation programs, band, athletics or another approved group will receive
instructions from the Office of Residence Life and Housing.
How are roommates matched?
Our assignment software matches roommates based on answers to a number of questions.
Room and roommate assignments are made without regard to race, religion, sexual orientation or national
origin, and we do not assign siblings or friends as roommates.
Historically, we have had a low percentage of room change requests from first-year students.
When will I find out who my roommate ?
You will be notified when your room and roommate assignments are available in mid-to-late July via your
Wake Forest email.
You will need to log into the Housing Portal at go.wfu.edu/housingportal to view your room and
roommate assignments.
When  get your roommate assignment, please reach out so that you can start getting to know one
another.
When you arrive on campus,  and your roommate will complete a Roommate Agreement that will
help define expectations for how you will use the room.
What are the advantages of living on campus?
Aside from the short commute to class every morning, living in Wake Forest's residence halls has many
advantages and places you in the center of the collegiate experience.
In addition to having access to a variety  spaces and programs, you will be surrounded by a trained staff
of helpful and caring individuals.
The staff work consistently to answer questions, provide support and foster secure, comfortable, inclusive
and engaging learning communities.
Will I have access to laundry facilities?
The Office Residence Life and Housing  committed to providing students with the amenities
necessary to make their living space a home away from home.
One of those is the free laundry facilities available in each residential community.
For more information on our laundry facilities, visit go.wfu.edu/ f101laundry.
 Line shuttles
 Forest operates a fleet of scheduled shuttle lines and on-demand services to members  the campus
community.
Different shuttle lines will take you to parking, Hanes Mall, Target, various apartment complexes, Wake
Downtown and the Coliseum for men's basketball games.
Download the TransLoc Rider app to your smartphone to track each shuttle's location on the various
routes and see estimated times of arrival.
Nightly, you can use the TransLoc Rider app for on-call service for a free ride around campus and to and
from surrounding Wake Forest neighborhoods.
Visit the website for schedules and more information: parking.wfu.edu/ride-the-wake.
Bike sharing
No room in the car for your bike?
No worries.
Borrow one for the semester. sustainability.wfu. edu/bikeshare
Share the Ride
SharetheRideNC is an electronic ride-sharing board that helps students connect with others who are
traveling to the same destination or just in the same direction.
Rides are matched based on the criteria set by the individuals offering and seeking rides.
sharetheridenc.org
Zipcar
Wake Forest offers this car-sharing program as an alternative to bringing your own car to campus.
Cars are parked on campus near the first-year residence halls, between Kitchin and Poteat halls, and on
the North Campus.
They are available 24 hours a day; rates include gas and insurance. zipcar.com/wfu
Parking registration
For families who decide to send a car to campus, first-year parking permits will be available online
beginning August 1.
Visit our website at parking.wfu.edu to purchase your parking permit, access the parking map and become
familiar with the Parking Rules and Regulations.
Parking permits will be available for pickup in the Benson University Center on Move-in Day.
All first-year and transfer students, including those who commute to campus, are required to park in a
designated lot off campus.
Shuttle service is provided.
Students with disabilities or health issues should refer to LAC-DS (see p. 142)
Recreational Facilities
Come check out the Wake Forest Wellbeing Center.
This renovated and expanded facility boasts state-of-the-art cardio and weight equipment as well as four
gyms, four exercise studios, a pool and whirlpool, comfortable lounges and a climbing and bouldering
wall.
Our campus also offers five acres of playing fields, over three miles of running trails, a disc golf course
and outdoor basketball, tennis and sand volleyball courts.
Campus Recreation has an extensive equipment checkout, including basketballs, tennis rackets, cornhole
sets and more.
And when the family comes to visit, they can get a guest pass and join you!
To learn more, visit go.wfu.edu/recfacilities.
Fitness
In addition to offering state-of-the-art equipment, Campus Rec offers daily group fitness classes ranging
from Zumba to yoga, as well as small-group training like TRX and HIIT.
Personal trainers are also available in Reynolds Gym.
All instructors and trainers are professionally certified and trained to give you the best fitness experience
possible.
Learn more at go.wfu.edu/fitness.
Intramural Sports
Most Deacons participate in at least one of several intramural sports each year.
Both recreational and competitive leagues are available, so you can have fun no matter how competitive
(or noncompetitive) you may be, and championship T-shirts are prized possessions!
Check it out at go.wfu.edu/ intramurals.
Club Sports
Wish you could continue competing in your favorite sport here at Wake Forest?
You can!
There are 35 club sport teams that compete against other universities.
If we don't currently field a team in your favorite sport, you can start your own club team.
Learn more at go.wfu. edu/clubsports.
Outdoor Pursuits
Ready for an adventure?
Outdoor Pursuits is your outdoor adventure headquarters.
We offer not only a wide range of day and overnight trips, but also an extensive inventory of rental gear.
Want to meet others who enjoy the outdoors?
Participate in Wilderness to Wake, the University's largest first -year pre-orientation program.
Come join us at go.wfu. edu/outdoors.
Aquatics
Go ahead!
Take the plunge and dive into our eight-lane pool or relax in the 14 -person whirlpool.
Whether you want to swim for fitness, competition or fun, we're here for you!
Whatever you do, jump in, 'cause the water's great!
Find out more at go.wfu.edu/aquatics.
Student Employment
Looking for a job during college?
We want you!
Campus Rec is the largest employer of students on campus, and we have jobs including lifeguard, trip
guide and climbing wall attendant.
We also hire and train group fitness instructors, personal trainers and intramural officials.
Working on campus is super convenient, and we like to think we're pretty fun too!
Visit go.wfu.edu/recjobs.



Like a Forest should be.
The Office of Sustainability provides students with the support to transform their interests in
sustainability into passionate leadership.
Whether we can encourage you to carry a reusable water bottle or inspire you to become a change agent
for sustainability, there is a place and a way for to get involved.
"Student Involvement Fair
The Fall Involvement Fair will be online throughout August and September."
Students can browse through welcome videos from many of Wake's student organizations and learn how
to get involved on campus and in the community.
Look out for a link to the fair in your email near the end of summer!
Wake the Demons/First-Year Tailgate, September 11 Kick off the 2020 Wake Forest football season with
your class at the game against Appalachian State University!
Athletics and Campus Life sponsor a free event with food trucks, music and prizes exclusively for the
incoming class at the first home football game.
Storm the field with your class prior to the game and open the gate for the team.
Free food, music and tons of Deacon spirit!
Homecoming, November 6-8 Homecoming is fall reunion weekend for alumni, friends and students of
Wake Forest.
It includes the Homecoming football game against Syracuse and activities organized by Student Union,
Student Government, the Alumni Engagement Office and Athletics.
Parents and families of Wake Forest students are invited to attend an exciting weekend filled with
activities, including the football game against the University of Miami, parent information sessions, an
address by President Nathan O. Hatch, programs on the history of Wake Forest, numerous open houses
and Sunday brunch.

Like the fight song says,
your new home is unrivaled by any
The history, events, quirks and rituals that make Wake Forest unique help form a lasting bond among
those who call themselves Demon Deacons.
In a time before Google, these were things passed from one generation of Wake Foresters to the next.
Embrace them.
Make them your own.
Life in the Forest 75
THE HONESTY,
TRUSTWORTHINESS AND
PERSONAL INTEGRITY OF
EACH STUDENT IS INTEGRAL TO
THE LIFE AND PURPOSE OF THE WAKE FOREST COMMUNITY.
TOGETHER, WE SEEK THE ENLIGHTENMENT AND FREEDOM WHICH COME THROUGH
DILIGENT STUDY AND LEARNING.
AN EVEN HIGHER GOAL, HOWEVER, IS
"TO GIVE LIFE TO THE UNIVERSITY MOTTO,
pro humanitate, "
AS THE PASSION FOR KNOWLEDGE IS TRANSLATED
INTO COMPASSIONATE SERVICE.
78 Life in the Forest
DEAR OLD WAKE FOREST,
THINE IS A NOBLE NAME;
THINE IS A GLORIOUS FAME,
CONSTANT AND TRUE.
WE GIVE THEE OF OUR PRAISE,
ADORE THINE ANCIENT DAYS,
SING THEE OUR HUMBLE LAYS,
Mother, So Dear
DEAR OLD WAKE FOREST,
MYSTIC THY NAME TO CHEER;
BE THOU OUR GUARDIAN NEAR FORE'ER AND AYE.
WE BOW BEFORE THY SHRINE,
THY BROW WITH BAYS ENTWINE,
ALL HONOR NOW BE THINE,
MOTHER, TODAY.
BY GEORGE W. PASCHAL, CLASS OF 1892 (THURINGIAN FOLK SONG) Life in the Forest 79
Project Pumpkin
Project Pumpkin is an annual event around Halloween sponsored by the Office of Civic & Community
Engagement.
It brings approximately 700 children from the Winston-Salem community onto campus and pairs them
with Wake Forest undergraduates for trick-or-treating and carnival games. go.wfu.edu/projectpumpkin
Wake 'n Shake
What do over 1,200 students do together in Reynolds Gym for 12 continuous hours in March?
They dance, sing, play games, hear inspirational stories and have a fantastic time, all to help find a cure
for cancer.
So get on your feet and get ready to dance! go.wfu.edu/wakenshake
Hit the Bricks
"This is college!"
These were the words of a first-year student while racing around the Quad as a member of his residence
hall's relay team.
More than 1,000 students, faculty and staff join together in Wake Forest's annual eight-hour team relay
event to benefit the Brian Piccolo Cancer Drive. go.wfu.edu/hitthebricks
80 Life in the Forest
YOUR COLORS
OLD GOLD & BLACK
YOUR FIGHT SONG
O here's to Wake Forest
A glass of the finest
Red ruddy, Rhenish
Filled up to the brim.
Her sons, they are many
Unrivaled by any
With hearts o'erflowing,
We will sing a hymn.

RAH, RAH, WAKE FOREST, RAH!
Old Alma Mater's sons are we!
We'll herald the story
and die for her glory:
Old Gold and Black is
ever waving high.
As frosh we adore her,
As sophs we explore her,
and carve our names
upon her ancient walls.
As juniors patrol her,
as seniors extol her,
and weep to leave fore'er
her sacred halls.
(WIPE TEARS AND REPEAT CHORUS)
Where are the athletic facilities?
Wake Forest's facilities are located both on and off the Reynolda Campus.
Field hockey and track and field utilize Kentner Stadium, which is located next to Reynolds Gym.
The men's and women's soccer teams play at Spry Stadium, adjacent to Polo Residence Hall.
The volleyball team uses Reynolds Gym as its home facility.
The baseball, football and basketball facilities are adjacent to each other off campus on Deacon
Boulevard.
The football team plays at BB&T Field, the basketball teams host their home games at the Lawrence Joel
Veterans Memorial Coliseum and the baseball team competes at David F. Couch Ballpark.
The men's and women's tennis teams practice and play at both the Wake Forest University Indoor Tennis
Center and the Wake Forest Tennis Complex.
How do I get to the football stadium?
Prior to football games, the athletics department runs shuttle buses between the Reynolda Campus and
BB&T Field.
The buses typically start picking up students at Wait Chapel four hours before game time.
As kickoff approaches, additional shuttle buses will also make pickups at Benson University Center.
How do I get tickets to athletic events?
All undergraduate students receive free admission to all Wake Forest athletic events by showing their
Deacon OneCards.
However, the number of seats at these games is limited, and spots are first come, first served.
How much does it cost?
There is no cost for students to attend athletic events.
There is a minimal cost for students to join the Screamin' Demons.
Can students tailgate at football games?
There is a designated student tailgate area within the University Tennis Center, which is behind the East
Stands at BB&T Field.
Any recognized student organization can reserve space at the student tailgate by contacting WFU Sports
Marketing.
Where can I get apparel?
Wake Forest apparel items are sold at Deacon Shops in Kitchin Residence Hall and in Hanes Mall.
Be proud and wear your black and gold!
How do I try out for a team?
The walk-on tryout process varies from team to team.
The best thing to do is to contact the specific athletic team on which you would like to participate.
What is a Screamin' Demon?
The Screamin' Demons are a student group that supports all Wake Forest athletic teams.
They are considered the loudest and proudest Wake Forest fans, and their presence helps to create the
energy and atmosphere that make Wake Forest sporting events such a great tradition.
Membership in the Screamin' Demons includes T-shirts for football and basketball games.
Screamin' Demons also receive priority for the best seats at sporting events.
For more information, visit godeacs.com/screamindemons.
